User assistance
	a general term 
	means: guided assistance to a user of a software product. 
	The phrase incorporates all forms of help available to a user. 
	Assistance can also automatically perform procedures or step users through the procedure, 
	depending on the question that the user asked. 
	The term is broader than online help, and includes procedural and tutorial information.

Online help 
	A form of user assistance.
	It is topic-oriented, procedural or reference information delivered through computer software.  
	Most online help is designed to give assistance in the use of a software application or operating system, 
	but can also be used to present information on a broad range of subjects. 
	When online help is linked to the state of the application (what the user is doing), 
	it is called Context-sensitive help.

	Online help has largely replaced live customer support. 
	Before its availability, support could only be given through 
	- printed documentation (limited), 
	- mail (long wait) or 
	- telephone (expensive).

	When customers troubleshoot their own problems, quite often they can get to a solution by themselves, 
	saving time and money for themselves and the company. 
	More companies can afford this kind of help system, 
	allowing them to compete with the large companies more effectively.

Help authoring tool (HAT)
	A Help Authoring Tool or HAT is a software program used by technical writers to create online help systems.
	The basic functions of a HAT can be divided into the following categories:
	- File input

		HATs obtain their source text either by importing it from a file produced by another program, 
		or by allowing the author to create the text within the tool by using an editor. 
		File formats that can be imported vary from HAT to HAT. 
		Acceptable file formats can include ASCII, HTML, OpenOffice Writer and Microsoft Word, 
		and compiled Help formats such as Microsoft WinHelp and Microsoft Compressed HTML Help.
	- Help output

		The output from a HAT can be either a compiled Help file in a format such as WinHelp (*.HLP) 
		or Microsoft Compiled HTML Help (*.CHM), 
		or noncompiled file formats such as Adobe PDF, XML, HTML or JavaHelp.
	- Auxiliary functions

		Some HATs provide extra functions such as:

		    - Automatic or assisted Index generation
		    - Automatic Table of Contents
		    - Spelling checker
		    - Image editing
		    - Image hotspot editing
		    - Import and export of text in XML files, for exchange with computer-assisted translation programs

MadCap Software 
	An American computer software firm headquartered in San Diego, California.
	It creates help authoring tools. 
	MadCap's authoring tools are all based on xHTML.

	- Products
		- MadCap Flare
			a CAT (content authoring tool)
			it generates output in various formats, including HTML5, DotNet Help, Microsoft Compiled HTML Help, Microsoft Word, PDF, XPS, and WebHelp