https://www.dummies.com/computers/operating-systems/windows-xp-vista/how-e-mail-works/


A message is composed on a computer by using an email program: a client. 


The email program combines 
the text you wrote (the body) 
with 
the recipient, 
subject, 
date, and 
time (the header).

Your email program (the client) then sends the message off 
to an email server 
by using SMTP (the Simple Message Transfer Protocol).

The email server is basically 
a program running on another computer. 
For most people, 
the computer is located at your Internet service provider, 
or ISP.

At the server, 
the message is dissected and 
the recipients culled // отбирается (как скот), срывается (как цветы)
from the message’s To, Cc, and Bcc fields in the header. 
The SMTP server then finds the host computer for the recipients. 
For example, 
if the message is being sent to billg@microsoft.com, 
the server looks up microsoft.com 
and sends the message off to that computer.

For a few nanoseconds, 
the message hops around the Internet 
as it makes the connection to the destination computer.

At the destination computer, 
another SMTP server fetches the message 
and stuffs it into a mailbox for the intended user. 
There, it sits and waits until the user logs in to collect mail. 
But the mailbox on the server 
isn’t the same thing as the inbox in your PC’s mail program.

The recipient’s mail program collects new messages from his ISP’s server. 
The mail program uses 
the Post Office Protocol (POP) to fetch the message. 
POP is used instead of SMTP 
because the email message is no longer being sent on the Internet; 
it has arrived. 
All the POP does is 
- fetch the message waiting on the server and 
- transfer it back to the user’s computer and his email program.

After the mail messages are on the recipient’s computer, 
they’re stored in a database. 
Secretly, 
all email programs are database programs. 
After your messages are received, 
they exist in various mailboxes 
organized by your email program: 
Inbox, Deleted Items, and Junk, for example.

The email methods described here 
don’t apply to email systems at large organizations, 
such as Lotus Notes or Microsoft Exchange.

In addition to POP 
is the Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) method of reading email. Unlike POP, 
IMAP doesn’t delete messages from the user’s mailbox on the server 
until the user deletes the message. 
Web-based email programs, 
such as Gmail and Hotmail,
often prefer IMAP.

Your email is stored on the ISP’s computer 
until you pick it up. 
Unless you retrieve those messages, 
your mailbox on the ISP’s mail server 
continues to fill up 
until it’s so bloated 
that no more messages can be received.

Most ISPs 
limit the size of your mailbox. 
Additionally, 
your account may have size limits on individual messages, 
which often can’t be larger than 5 or 10 megabytes. 
Contact your ISP for specifics.

When your mailbox gets full, 
the ISP bounces any new email you might receive. 
The message is returned to the sending SMTP computer, 
but the sender may not receive a notice 
that the message has bounced.