Synopsis 
Module one describes the respectful workplace, introduces participants to the terms diversity and inclusion, and outlines the many benefits of a diverse workforce. Unacceptable behaviours are identified and the negative consequences of such behaviours are described.

Learning Objectives 
Upon completion of module one, participants will be able to:

Describe a respectful workplace
Define diversity and inclusion
Recognize diversity as an asset to the organization, with both financial and non-financial benefits
Know the general categories of people identified when addressing workplace diversity
Identify behaviours that are unacceptable and the ways that such behaviours negatively impact on individuals and on organizations

3

What is a "respectful" workplace?
A respectful workplace is one where employees feel safe, believe that they are being treated fairly, and are able to focus on getting their work done. In a respectful workplace, the daily behaviours of employees reflect consideration for others and diversity is valued.

4

Diversity and Inclusion

There was a time when workplace diversity was associated almost exclusively with women and visible minorities. Today our understanding of diversity has changed as our society has come to recognize people of increasingly varied backgrounds. Diversity encompasses all of the ways that we are different from each other, including factors like race, ethnicity, culture, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, personality, and economic status.

When we talk about inclusion, we are talking about creating an environment where the backgrounds, ideas, and perspectives of diverse people are recognized as valuable, and where people from diverse backgrounds are engaged and participate equally in decision-making.

In an effective organization, respect and inclusion go hand-in-hand; new ideas are embraced, different styles of thinking are accommodated, collaboration and cooperation are encouraged, and the work environment is as flexible as possible.

5

Diverse Groups in the Workplace


While diversity encompasses all of the ways that we are different from each other, there are broad categories of people that are generally identified when addressing diversity in the workplace. These include:
Aboriginal Peoples
Visible minorities
New Canadians (immigrants)
Women
The LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgendered, queer) community
Persons with disabilities
Each of these groups is distinct and diverse within themselves, but all have faced obstacles or been discriminated against for historical, cultural and systemic reasons. This discrimination has limited them from full participation in the labour market.

8

Unacceptable Workplace Behaviours

The range of unacceptable workplace behaviours is very broad, including things like:

Physical violence, or threats of violence;
Emotional or psychological abuse;
Discrimination;
Harassment and bullying;
Embarrassing or humiliating behaviours (e.g. public reprimands);
Unreasonable demands and undue persistence;
Disruptive behaviours;
Sabotaging job performance (e.g. withholding necessary information, setting unattainable goals);
Spreading gossip or rumours, including online communications;
Displaying offensive materials in the workplace;

9

Unintentional Behaviours

Disrespectful behaviours may not be deliberate. For example, a joke that one person finds funny may be offensive to someone else. The lack of malicious intent does not make the joke less offensive.

When it comes to workplace behaviours, actions matter regardless of intent. Derogatory comments about anyone - regardless of ethnicity, gender, belief, sexual preference, or any other reason are not acceptable. Jokes, comments, and actions that embarrass someone or make them seem "less than" are not tolerated in a respectful, inclusive workplace.


Effects of Disrespectful Behaviours.
Victims of disrespectful behaviours may experience a variety of symptoms including stress, anger, frustration, insomnia, stomach aches, head aches, panic/anxiety attacks, and loss of confidence. Employees who are the targets of disrespectful behaviours waste work time defending themselves, worrying about the situation, and trying to find support among co-workers. They are distracted, de-motivated, and prone to stress-related illnesses that result in increased workplace absences..
When disrespectful behaviours are allowed to continue, the end result is a toxic work environment in which ALL employees suffer and the organization experiences negative consequences, like:.
High rates of absenteeism.
High rates of employee turnover.
Increased number of accidents and incidents.
Decreased morale.
Decreased productivity.
Poor customer service.
Poor corporate image.
A respectful workplace is good for individual employees AND for the organization..


The "Complaints-Free" Workplace
Change Font Size - A A
It is wrong to assume that everyone in the workplace is behaving appropriately just because there are no complaints being made to management. There are many reasons why employees may not make a report/complaint:

The employee may be embarrassed, afraid, or intimidated, or believe that reporting will make matters worse for them in some way,
The organization's policies and procedures may be perceived as ineffective,
The reporting procedure may not be clearly understood,
The goal of an organization should not be a workplace where there are no complaints. Rather, it should be to create an environment in which employees recognize unacceptable behaviours, know how to respond, and are confident that complaints will be taken seriously and resolved appropriately.



module 2

Synopsis 
Module two examines the concept of culture, identifies attitudes and behaviours that can lead to misunderstandings and conflict in a culturally diverse workplace, and introduces strategies to support effective, respectful communication.

Learning Objectives 
Upon completion of module two, participants will be able to:

Understand the concept of "culture".
Recognize the broad diversity of cultures and languages that form Canadian society.
Define ethnocentrism and know the importance of recognizing and over-coming personal cultural biases.
Identify the basic components of cultural competency.
Describe common barriers to cross-cultural communication and practical strategies to reduce misunderstandings and develop rapport.

Multiculturalism in Canada

“Canada is not a melting pot in which the individuality of each element is destroyed in order to produce a new and totally different element. It is rather a garden into which have been transplanted the hardiest and brightest flowers from many lands, each retaining in its new environment the best of the qualities for which it was loved and prized in its native land.” - John Diefenbaker, Prime Minister of Canada, 1957-1963

With the exception of the Aboriginal Peoples who are the original inhabitants of the continent, all Canadians can trace their roots back to another part of the world. In 1971, Canada was the first country in the world to adopt multiculturalism as an official policy. Multiculturalism ensures that all citizens can keep their cultural identifies, can take pride in their ancestry and have a sense of belonging




The Concept of Culture

Culture is a complex concept. In simple terms, culture refers to a group or community that has shared experiences that shape the way its members understand the world. Culture is the way of life of a group of people. In this course, "culture" refers to the environment in which we were raised.

We often associate culture with things that we are born into, like ethnicity, national origin, or gender, but the concept of culture may also apply to groups that we become part of over our lifetime. For example, we can acquire a new culture by moving to a new region, by a change in our economic status, or by becoming disabled. By adulthood, the cultural identity of most adults is associated with more than one culture.







Culture is Learnt


Culture is not inherited. There is no culture 'gene'. It is not like skin tone or eye colour. Culture is learnt. Children learn by watching and listening to the adults around them. In this way, culture is passed down from one generation to the next.

Members of a culture may share many things, such as language, history, religion, traditions, customs, foods, clothing, and manners of behaving. Culture affects how each person sees the world, makes sense of the things that happen in the world, and behaves in the world.

This does not mean that every member of a particular culture has identical attitudes and behaviours. Each person is unique, with their own personality and their own life experiences, and each person experiences their culture in a unique way.










Ethnocentrism

Ethnocentrism is the tendency to view the world from the perspective of one's own culture. Cultural comparisons are natural. The problem is the tendency to view differences in a negative way.

Most of us accept the values and norms of our culture as "normal" and "right". When we judge another culture by comparing it to our own, we are inclined to label beliefs and behaviours that differ from ours as "abnormal" and "wrong". 
The feeling that one's own cultural rules are superior to the rules of others is the foundation of unhealthy bias and can lead to stereotyping, prejudice and discrimination.

To avoid this way of thinking, you need to develop cultural self-awareness as well as cultural awareness. You must learn to recognize your personal cultural biases and you must broaden your knowledge of issues to include other cultural perspectives.







Supporting Cultural Awareness in the Workplace

Cultural awareness is the process of becoming more aware of and better understanding both your own culture and other cultures. Cultural awareness can be introduced in the workplace through both formal and informal means.

The employer should provide employees with respect and inclusion training as well as education about cultural groups. (e.g. Aboriginal Cultural Awareness). Formal training will include seminars, workshops, and courses, like the online training course you are taking now.

Formal training is very important but is typically composed of one-time events. Alone, formal training will not change the behaviours of individual workers or the overall workplace environment. An organization that is truly committed to diversity will need to have other strategies in place to reinforce and sustain a respectful, inclusive workplace. These should include opportunities for workers to talk about culture and learn to appreciate diverse cultures in less structured settings.

Informal strategies may include conversations at staff meetings, potluck meals, celebrations of diversity, and other occasions where workers are encouraged to talk about their cultural backgrounds and share their experiences.





Self-Learning

As an individual, there are many things you can do to learn more about the history, traditions, values and beliefs of other cultures:

Read books and articles about other cultures, particularly things that have been written by members of those cultures.
Watch documentaries about other cultures.
Visit websites dedicated to providing information about specific cultures. Most cultural groups are represented by national organizations. On these sites you can find out what cultural leaders have to say about historical and current events.
Attend local festivals and other events hosted by cultural groups.
The world is filled with fascinating languages, customs, arts, musical styles, etc. Sign up to learn something like a new language, how to cook foods from another culture, how to play an instrument common to another culture, etc..
Engage in pleasant, open conversations with diverse people. Encourage coworkers, neighbours and clients from other cultures to tell you more about their culture.




Cultural Competency

Cultural awareness is just the first step on the path to cultural competency. Cultural competency refers to the ability to understand, communicate with, and effectively interact, with people from different cultures. 
Cultural competency is a lifelong learning process that requires you to constantly assess your personal beliefs, opinions, and actions, and behave in a manner that demonstrates respect and courtesy towards people of other cultures.


Rapport

Rapport is about more than just effectively communicating facts and opinions. When you have developed rapport with someone, you are “in sync” - You enjoy their company and can work with them productively without either of you feeling stressed.

Rapport is not usually created by a single act. Most often, it is the result of many things done consistently right. To develop rapport with someone from another culture you need to consistently:

Show respect for their cultural values and beliefs,
Express genuine interest in them as an individual,
Be relaxed and open during conversations, and
Use effective communication strategies.


Every jurisdiction in Canada has human rights legislation. 
Although there are some differences from one jurisdiction to another, the principles are essentially the same. Each statute prohibits discrimination on specified grounds, such as race, ethnic origin, sex, age, religion, or disability. In every jurisdiction, human rights laws prohibit discrimination in all aspects of employment.

When someone is treated badly based on one of the prohibited grounds, the behaviour meets the legal definition of discrimination. An example would be firing a female employee because she is pregnant (sexual discrimination) or denying a promotion to an employee because of his ethnicity (racial discrimination). Actions like these are against the law.

Stereotypes and Prejudice
Change Font Size - A A
A stereotype is a pre-conceived and often demeaning opinion about a person, or a group of people, which is based solely on their membership in a particular group. Most stereotypes are negative and lead to an "us" versus "them" mentality.

When we accept stereotypes, we ignore the individual differences between people. We pre-judge and form opinions before learning the facts. This is the essence of prejudice. Prejudice is a feeling; discrimination and harassment are the behaviours that occur when people act on that feeling.



"Women are x."
"Men are x."
"First Nations people are x."
"Gay people are x."


Think of how you might fill in these blanks. A surprising number of our opinions about people are based on over-simplified generalizations (stereotypes).

Discrimination can take two forms. You may treat someone badly because of the way you feel about "those kind of people". Conversely, you may give someone preferential treatment because they are "like" you. Workplace discrimination can be overt or subtle, deliberate or unintentional. Discrimination that is based on one of the prohibited grounds identified in human rights legislation is against the law. ALL forms of discrimination are offensive, disrespectful and unacceptable in the workplace.
Systemic Discrimination
Change Font Size - A A
Discrimination is not limited to actions between individuals. It can be the result of a discriminatory system. When the policies, practices, and patterns of behaviour in an organization create or perpetuate disadvantages for certain groups of people, it is called systemic discrimination. Workers who are part of mainstream culture may not even recognize the problem.

Example: It may seem "normal" for a local company to rely on word of mouth to promote job openings. But what if you were a new Canadian and didn't know people in your new community? What if you were a member of a group not represented in the existing company workforce? This practice places anyone who is "outside" of the existing workplace demographic at a significant and unfair disadvantage.

Workplace Harassment and Bullying
Change Font Size - A A

The Canadian Human Rights Commission defines workplace harassment as "any workplace behaviour that demeans, humiliates, or embarrasses someone, and that a reasonable person should have known would be unwelcome." Harassing someone based on one of the prohibited grounds (e.g. ethnicity, gender) is a form of discrimination and is against the law. Harassment that is not based on one of the prohibited grounds is commonly called bullying.

Most jurisdictions in Canada (except New Brunswick, Nunavut, Northwest Territories, and Yukon) have legislation about workplace violence and/or harassment. Some Canadian jurisdictions have occupational health and safety (OHS) laws that specifically address bullying. ALL OHS legislation includes a general duty clause requiring employers to protect employees from hazards to their physical or mental well-being.

In a respectful workplace, there is zero-tolerance for harassment and bullying.
Forms of Harassment and Bullying (Cont.)
Change Font Size - A A
Workplace harassment and bullying can take many forms, including:

Physical (e.g. assault, pushing, poking, unwanted touching)
Verbal (e.g. yelling, name calling)
Social (e.g. spreading rumours/gossiping, excluding/ostracizing)
Visual (e.g. displaying offensive materials)
Cyber (e.g. sending threatening texts, posting embarrassing photos)
Harassment and bullying are seldom one-time acts. Instead, they are represented by a pattern of behaviours, repeated over time. Harassment and bullying may involve only two people - a perpetrator and a victim - but may also involve groups. Intent does not determine whether or not someone is guilty of harassing or bullying. Behaviours that intimidate, demean, or humiliate others cannot be excused as jokes, accidents, or misunderstandings.

Workplace harassment and bullying can occur outside of the traditional workplace. The boundaries of the work environment are not defined by location, but by whether or not the behaviour is in some way associated with employment. Business trips, conferences, office parties, and social gatherings of co-workers, are all examples of environments in which someone may experience work-related harassment or bullying.
Sexual Harassment
Change Font Size - A A
Sexual harassment is discrimination based on sex. It includes any unwanted sexual attention or unwanted emphasis on a person’s sex or sexual orientation. In the workplace, sexual harassment can take many forms, including:

Unwanted touching (e.g. fondling, grabbing, pinching)
Unwanted sexual advances (e.g. repeatedly asking someone for a date, even after being refused)
Sexist jokes, leering or whistling
Demands for sex in return for a job or other benefits
Gossip or rumours about someone’s sex life
Assignment of job or job duties based on gender
Display or distribution of sexually suggestive material
Intimidation or threats of a sexual nature
Flirting with, dating, or having a sexual relationship with a co-worker is not sexual harassment, so long as both parties are consenting. However, such interactions can lead to sexual harassment down the road if the relationship ends badly, especially if one of the people involved has a greater level of workplace "power" than the other.

Both women and men can be victims of sexual harassment. Both women and men can commit acts of sexual harassment. A person may be sexually harassed by someone from the opposite gender or by someone from the same gender.

Sexual harassment is against the law. It violates the Canadian Human Rights Act. Sexual harassment that involves physical aggression violates The Criminal Code of Canada.

Abuse of Authority
Change Font Size - A A
<
Abuse of authority occurs when someone in a position of authority in the workplace (e.g. supervisor, manager) uses the power of that position to interfere with an employee or the employee's job. Abuse of authority can take many forms, including:

Falsely questioning an employee's skills
Failing to assign an employee tasks
Systematically interrupting an employee's work
Deliberately placing an employee in a humiliating or embarrassing situation
Ignoring or ostracizing an employee
Abuse of authority includes bullying tactics like humiliation, intimidation, threats, and coercion. It DOES NOT include reasonable management actions like offering constructive feedback, guidance, or advice about work-related behaviour and job performance.

Interpersonal Conflict
Change Font Size - A A
People can have differences of opinion and disagreements without engaging in unreasonable behaviours. However, it is important to resolve interpersonal conflicts quickly because situations that are not effectively managed may escalate and become more serious.

There are different ways to manage interpersonal conflict. The people involved may be able to resolve the matter on their own through reasonable conversation and compromise. If this fails, a supervisor or manager may talk to them about what behaviour is acceptable in the workplace and what is not. A more formal approach might involve mediation, where the people involved sit down together, with a skilled mediator, to discuss and resolve the matter.


Appropriate Response
Change Font Size - A A
Any situation involving violence, or the threat of violence, must be reported and addressed immediately to protect the health and safety of everyone involved. Situations involving discrimination, harassment, and bullying should be reported as early as possible. Your employer cannot address the problem if they do not know about it. If your supervisor is the person whose behaviour is concerning you, speak to the next person of seniority in your workplace. Follow your organization's reporting procedure. If you are unsure about the procedure, ask a supervisor or manager for assistance.

If the behaviour is non-threatening and you feel safe and comfortable doing so, it may be appropriate to speak to the other person directly. Tell them that you object to their behaviour and ask that it stop. Try to be calm and non-confrontational, focusing on the unwanted behaviour rather than the person. Be open to feedback because the other person may have a different perspective on the situation. If you are uncomfortable speaking to the person on your own, you may ask your supervisor or manager (or union representative) to be with you during this conversation.

DO NOT RETALIATE. When you behave inappropriately, you blur the lines between victim and offender, making it more difficult for others to properly evaluate and respond to the situation.

If You are the Accused
Change Font Size - A A

Being accused of behaving badly can be upsetting and come as a shock but it’s important to remain calm. Listen carefully to the person's concerns. Apologise for causing offence and discuss how you might work together more effectively. Be prepared to change your behaviour.

Do not be upset if the person is not comfortable speaking with you, or if they choose to have a third party included in the conversation. This option is within their rights. If you do not understand the complaint, or if you feel that it is unjust or malicious, you should discuss this with your supervisor or manager. A mediated discussion between you, the person making the allegation and a neutral third party may go better and help to resolve the situation.

Regardless of how you feel about the person's accusations, you need to STOP THE BEHAVIOUR that led to the complaint. Reflect on what you are doing. You may have upset other co-workers who have not complained. If there are more complaints about your behaviour, the fact that you persisted after the first objection was made known to you will make the offence more serious, and potentially lead to more serious disciplinary actions.


If You are a Witness
Change Font Size - A A
As an employee, you are responsible for acting in a professional manner at all times. If you witness an unacceptable behaviour - even if it is not directed toward you - you have a responsibility to call attention to the behaviour and make it clear that it is not acceptable. If the behaviour does not stop, you must report the situation to a supervisor or manager.

If you see someone being humiliated, degraded, or disrespected in some way, it is also important to offer the person your support. Remind them of your organization's policies about respectful behaviour and the procedures to follow to make a complaint. If the person does not report the matter and it continues to happen, you should discuss the situation with the appropriate manager or supervisor.

What if I am a unionized employee?
Change Font Size - A A
Unions have a joint responsibility with the employer to create a safe, healthy workplace for all workers. If you are a unionized employee, you may seek union support and assistance in a variety of ways. A union representative may help you to:

Resolve your situation informally (e.g. accompanying you when you speak with the accused)
Resolve your situation formally, using your organization’s reporting and investigating procedures
File a grievance with the union
File a complaint with the Human Rights Commission or other external source
To obtain detailed information about how your union may be of assistance, you should contact them directly.

What external options may be available?
Change Font Size - A A

In most cases, issues can be resolved informally, or formally, by using your organization’s reporting and investigation processes. But there are other options available, depending on the type of harassment and the severity of the situation. External options may include:

Making a complaint to the Human Rights Commission
Making a complaint under the Occupational Health and Safety Act
Making a complaint under the Criminal Code


Test:
Some/All situations involving interpersonal conflict amount to harassment or bullying.
The ABC Company has never had a reported case of harassment or bullying. Is it accurate to assume that this means that the ABC Company is harassment-free? NO
External complaint options may include making a complaint
 	A, b, or c, depending on the circumstances
In every jurisdiction in Canada human rights laws prohibit discrimination in all aspects of employment.
Two co-workers are flirtatious with each other. Is this an example of sexual harassment? No
